===UNDER CONSTRUCTION===

LAST UPDATED: 21JUN15

This document focuses on firearms. Melee weapons, mage staffs, force powers, whatever the fuck else will be covered at a later time. While I want our guns and gunplay to be different--and, well, better--than other games, I'm not quite going for realism, either. Just bear with me.

TABLE OF CONTINENTS
(1) Weapon Categories - Overview
(2) Weapon Mod Categories - Overview
(3) Currently Planned Weapons
(4) Weapons Stats - Proposal & Overview
(5) Ammo Types - Proposal & Overview



(1) Weapon Categories Overview
In a nutshell, each category is defined by the type of ammunition/caliber of round it uses. Round calibre affects base stats of the weapon--most notably base damage--as well as effectiveness against soft, armored, and shielded targets. Most, if not all categories will have weapons of more than one calibre available--AKs use a larger round than AR15s, after all.
  - Basic overview of categories, kinda sorted by calibre:
	a. Pistols - Mostly lower than average damage, but otherwise decent stats. Mostly used as back-up weapons. Some pistols and SMGs use the same rounds--however, SMGs' other stats are typically superior, namely ROF and magazine size. Most pistols are semi-auto, however, and so are easy to control. Some pistols, such as revolvers, are special.
	b. SMGs - High ROF with decent recoil control, but lower stability and accuracy--ideal for CQB. Low-calibre rounds tear up soft targets, though are less effective against armor.
	c. Rifles - Closest to a jack-of-all-trades. Includes carbines, assault rifles, battle rifles, DMRs. Generally have decent stats all-around--ideal for medium-range engagements. Can be modded to fit a variety of roles, such as a heavy SMG or light support weapon.
	d. Shotguns - Powerful, spreading shots--ideal for CQB. Spreading pellets tear up organic material. Pellets contribute to force individually (hitting a guy with one pellet likely won't stagger him, but a full blast will). Pump-action shotguns have a tight pellet spread, allowing for better accuracy and effective range, whilst semi-auto shotguns have a wider pellet spread. If auto shotguns are added, they'll take after the latter. Pump-action can use slugs, which don't spread, but have increased damage and force.
	e. Snipers - High accuracy and damage, but probably low everything else--ideal for long-range engagements, Highest-calibre rounds available, pierce through armor and organic material alike.
	f. LMGs - High damage, slow reload speeds, and unwieldy while moving, with other stats varying from gun to gun--ideal usage varies. Higher-calibre rounds than rifles, better against armor and otters. Typo intentional.
	g. Launchers - Explosives. Namely rocket launchers and standalone grenade launchers. Using the latter instead of an underbarrel grenade launcher on an assault rifle allows the player to carry more grenades for it, as well as use exclusive ammo types.



(2) Weapon Mod Categories Overview
	a. Barrel - While there might alternate types (such as suppressed barrels), this is mainly for choosing barrel length. Kinda like how the M4 is literally a shortened M16, this grants a good deal of versatility to the gun. Enables the gun to be stubby CQB weapon, a DMR/Battle Rifle, or anything in between.
	b. Barrel Tip - Includes flash hiders, compensators, and suppressors. Affects muzzle flash. Suppressors eliminate muzzle flash, as well as lessen aggro generation.
	c. Stock - The part which connects the gun to your shoulder. Comes in Fixed, Adjustable, Collapsible, and Foldable. Adjustable/Collapsible stocks can be set to fully collapsed, partially extended, or fully extended. Foldable stocks can be folded or not.
	d. Magazine - Different mags have different capacities. For example, and AR15 has 20-round, 30-round, and 100-round (C-mags) mags. Might slightly affect other stats.
	e. Front Sight - Necessary if using iron sights, unnecessary for scopes or red dot/holo sights (though it won't get in the way, if you like how it looks). Can be replaced with something flat if desired. Doesn't affect stats.
	f. Scope/Sight/Rear Sight - Rear iron sight by default. Red dots/holo sights give no/slight zoom, while different scopes offer different magnifications, some possibly offering multiple. Can probably make the crosshair customizable.
	g. Rails/Handguard - Must not be longer than the barrel. Not all attachments are compatible with all handguards. Rails, by design, offer the most customization.
	h. Rail/Handguard Attachments - Has three sub-categories. Note that some handguards do not allow for side attachments, and topside attachments only fit on rails.
		i) Underside Attachments - Includes grips, grenades launchers, masterkeys, flashlight, laser point, PEQ box, possibly other stuff. If rails are longer enough, has two slots, fore and rear. Grenade launcher and masterkey will always take up entire space. Grips and can placed in either slot, but most other items are limited to the fore. While all handguards have at least some attachments that can be used here, some are more limited.
		ii) Side Attachments - Mainly flashlights, lasers, PEQ Boxes, and/or rail guards.
		iii) Topside Attachments - PEQ box, at least.


(3) Proposed Weapons
 Rifles: AR15, AK, Springfield
 SMGs: MP5, UZI, Thompson
 Shotguns: Mossberg, SPAS, Benelli
 Snipers: L96/AWP/Whatever
 Pistols: M1911, M9, HK45
 Support Guns: M249
 Launchers: RPG


(4) Weapons Stats - Proposal & Overview
(Items marked with a * are affected by the player's character's stats)
	a. Base Damage - Self-explanatory.
	b. Calibre - Basically determines what the base ammo is effective against. Low-calibre rounds are more effective against "soft" material, such as skin and cloth, and shields, but are less effective against armor. High-calibre rounds are good for damaging/piercing armor, but don't have a bonus against soft materials or shields. Assault rifles are the middle ground, not being particularly effective or ineffective against anything.
	c. Accuracy - The higher the number, the more accurate the gun itself is. A lot of guns will be perfectly accurate, and most of the rest will have high accuracy. This leads us to...
	d. Steadiness* -  Determines base (stationary) weapon sway. Is a number. When the weapon sways, the tip randomly floats around inside an invisible circle (the Sway Circle™). The number is the radius of said circle. 0 means no sway at all. Note that the sway continues when shooting.
	e. Recoil* - The lower the number, the less your gun kicks upward after every shot. Is a number; 0 means no recoil.
	f. Stability* - The lower the number, the less accuracy is lost after every shot--desirable for automatic weapons. Is a number. Determines how much the Sway Circle™ grows after each consecutive shot.
*Note that a gun can have high recoil control with low stability, and vice versa.
	g. Rate of Fire (ROF) - The higher the number, the higher the pewpews-per-second ratio.
	i. Force  - Still working this one out. Determines how effective a gun is at causing an enemy to stagger/fall. Basically, if a gun's force is higher than an enemy's stagger threshold, they'll stagger backward for a moment. Same for the fall threshold, which decides when/if an enemy can fall over.
	For automatic weapons, the force of each shot stacks. If the stagger threshold is reached within X seconds, the enemy will stagger. If the player can reach the fall threshold while the enemy is staggering, they will fall. If a threshold is not reached within X seconds, the counter resets.
Obviously, some enemies will be immune to staggering and/or falling.

	NOTE: Except for Doomers, players will get a percentage penalty to Steadiness and Stability while moving. Probably to recoil as well. Each playstyle has a different base penalty, with skill choices reducing this penalty.



(5) Ammo Types - Proposal & Overview - For the most part, these are just general ideas. If/when we decide to implement these, I'll arrange which are useable with what guns.
	a. Tracers - Default. Players can change the color.
	b. Shredder rounds - Bonus damage against soft targets, but slightly less effective against armor. Slight/no damage loss against shields.
	c. Hammer/Dent Rounds - Bonus against armor, plus added force. Slightly lower base damage. Maybe slight damage loss against shields.
	d. Phase rounds - Bonus damage against shields. Slightly lower base damage.
	e. Impact rounds - Bonus to force. May slightly reduce base damage.
	f. Toxin rounds - Adds damage-over-time to organic targets
	g. Virus rounds - Adds DoT to robotic targets
	h. Slugs - Exclusive to pump-action shotguns. Single, solid shots with higher base damage and force than buckshots.
	i. Screamer rounds - Bonus to suppression. Will probably lower base damage slightly.


===UNDER CONSTRUCTION===
